.TH AUTOCONF-RS 1 "2026-06-20" "autoconf-rs 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
autoconf \- generate configuration scripts from configure.ac (Rust-native)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autoconf
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-I\fR \fIDIR\fR|\fB\-\-include=\fR\fIDIR\fR]
[\fB\-B\fR \fIDIR\fR|\fB\-\-prepend\-include=\fR\fIDIR\fR]
[\fB\-W\fR \fICATEGORY\fR|\fB\-\-warnings=\fR\fICATEGORY\fR]
[\fItemplate-file\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B autoconf-rs
is a clean-room, Rust-native reimplementation of GNU Autoconf.
It generates POSIX-compliant
.B configure
shell scripts from
.B configure.ac
(or
.BR configure.in )
template files using forensic-parity methodology.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force regeneration even if output is up to date.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR \fIDIR\fR, \fB\-\-include=\fR\fIDIR\fR
Append directory DIR to the search path for M4 include files.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR \fIDIR\fR, \fB\-\-prepend\-include=\fR\fIDIR\fR
Prepend directory DIR to the include search path.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR \fICATEGORY\fR, \fB\-\-warnings=\fR\fICATEGORY\fR
Enable warnings from CATEGORY (cross, gnu, obsolete, override, portability, syntax, unsupported, all, error, no-CATEGORY).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AUTOCONF
Path to the autoconf binary (for recursive invocation).
.TP
.B AUTOM4TE
Path to the autom4te binary.
.TP
.B M4
Path to the GNU M4 binary.
.TP
.B WARNINGS
Default warning categories.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Success (no warnings or errors).
.TP
1
Warnings were emitted.
.TP
2
Errors occurred; no configure script was generated.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B configure.ac / configure.in
Input template file processed by autoconf.
.TP
.B configure
Generated POSIX shell script.
.TP
.B autom4te.cache/
Cache directory for M4 expansions (JSON format, SHA256-validated).
.SH NOTES
autoconf-rs is NOT a drop-in GNU Autoconf replacement.
It uses a different internal architecture (prescan + template dispatch)
but produces functionally equivalent configure scripts.
See \fBdocs/FORENSIC-GAP-ANALYSIS.md\fR for detailed parity status.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR autoheader (1),
.BR autom4te (1),
.BR autoreconf (1),
.BR aclocal (1),
.BR autoscan (1),
.BR autoupdate (1),
.BR ifnames (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs via the project issue tracker.
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT OR Apache-2.0. Zero GPL code (clean-room reconstruction).
